The term social media refers to a computer-based technology that facilitates the sharing of ideas, thoughts, and information through virtual networks and communities. Social media is internet-based and gives users quick electronic communication of content, such as personal information, documents, videos, and photos. Users engage with social media via a computer, tablet, or smartphone via web-based software or applications. While social media is ubiquitous in America and Europe, Asian countries like Indonesia lead the list of social media usage. More than 4.5 billion people use social media, as of October 2021.

A social graph is a d A social graph is a diagram that illustrates interconnections among people, groups and organizations in a social network. The term is also used to describe an individual's social network.

When portrayed as a map, a social graph appears as a set of network nodes that are connected by lines. Each node, which may also be referred to as an actor, is actually a data record. The connecting lines used to map relationships between data records are referred to as edges, ties or interdependencies.
When a social graph has a small number of nodes, it can easily be mapped on a whiteboard or piece of paper, using color-coded solid and dotted lines to indicate relationships. When the social graph has a large number of nodes, however, crisscrossed ties can quickly become tangled, making it difficult for anyone to get meaningful information out of the diagram. Graph database software such as Apache Giraph makes it easier to analyze a large, complex social graph database through queries. This is how most social media sites, including Facebook, use search algorithms to personalize news feeds and target advertisingiagram that illustrates interconnections among people, groups and organizations in a social network. The term is also used to describe an individual's social network.
When portrayed as a map, a social graph appears as a set of network nodes that are connected by lines. Each node, which may also be referred to as an actor, is actually a data record. The connecting lines used to map relationships between data records are referred to as edges, ties or interdependencies.
